Welcome back.
Let's look at rule number two that is remove constants.
Let's see what I mean.
I have written here the most ridiculous function ever.
The function is print first item then first half then say hi a hundred times.
Probably not the best named function ever but as the name describes all we're doing is we're going to
cancel log the first item in the array and then we're going to print the first half of the items.
So I'm finding the middle index of the items.
So I'm saying items got length divided by two and I use math floor here in javascript as a way for us
to make sure that we get a whole number and we're going to say variable indexes 0.
I'm using a wide loop here instead of a for loop and I'm saying as long as middle index is greater than
zero.
I want you to console log the items.
So that means console log the first half of the item we had 10 items.
I'm going to console log the first five items.
And then I'm going to do another for loop and say I'm Konsole logging high a 100 times pretty pretty
useless I would say.
Not a very useful function.
What is the big go of this function.
Well looking over here it's going to be big-O of one over here.
So we have one for just logging the first items then we have half of whatever the items is.
So in that case and divide it by two because even though we have a for loop or a WHILE loop we're only
logging half the items every time.
So we could just do and divide by two.
And then finally we're doing a for loop.
But again this is a bit of a trick.
We're not looping over the items array.
We just have 100 no matter how big the items array is.
This is going to be always 100.
So I just say plus a hundred.
That's another step because again we're just adding each of the steps that we see here.
So this is our big-O for this function but rule number two states we want to drop the constants.
We simply are saying that we don't really care that this big O is actually and divide by two plus 101.
Remember in an interview we only care about the things that we saw on the chart.
Nothing specific like this.
So this turns into one.
And this even though it's divided by half in the grand scheme of things we only care about when it scales
when the inputs are getting larger and larger.
So as an gets bigger and bigger we don't care about adding an extra 100 because if n is a million adding
an extra hundred on there another 100 steps doesn't really matter.
And same with dividing white to as and gets larger and larger dividing by two has a decreasingly significant
effect.
So we drop the constants like this so this becomes all of an plus one OK.
And because one if and was a million is very insignificant.
We can just drop this as well.
This function just becomes oh over.
What if we had another function that had let's say all of a plus 50 or a 50 with a ton of zeros.
It doesn't really matter.
We dropped the constants.
It's gonna be oh ok what about the other situation.
What if we have this function here.
Compress boxes twice where this function actually has two four loops where it does the same thing but
it's two four loops.
So we have all been in this for loop.
And then of an IN THIS FOR loop and because these are two separate steps while we add them together
so becomes of an plus of an he calls of two.
And but again in an interview this doesn't really matter because we drop the constants and if we drop
the constants what does this function equate to.
Well as just a event to prove that I'm not lying to you.
If we look at this function on our graph we see that the elements as the elements increase.
We have two operations because we have two four loops.
If we have two elements in that case we do four operations.
If we have three then we do one two three four five six and we see how it increases.
But at the end of the day even though the line is steeper we have a lot more operations to do.
The way the line increases is still linear and that's the key here with big-O we don't really care about
how steep the line is.
We care about how the line moves as our inputs increase makes our lives a whole lot simpler doesn't
it.
So remember drop the constants.
You're never going to really see numbers in Big O notation.
Most likely the notations that we've seen in the past before on our graph Usually these and the only
time you see numbers is when you have of one of and squared or of two to the power of an which we'll
get to later.
Don't worry I'll see in the next video.